# Getting Started > Tooling

## pnpm workspaces

This repo uses [pnpm workspaces](https://pnpm.io/workspaces). This means we have several package.json files across the repository
(one in the root, one in `/src`, one in `/storybook`, for example).

When installing dependencies, running `pnpm install` from the root, or any directory listed as a package in the 
[`pnpm-workspace.yaml`](../../pnpm-workspace.yaml) will install all dependencies across all these packages, as if you ran
`pnpm install` in each.

## Tooling structure

We use pnpm workspaces to separate out the dependencies of our application. The main separations are:

- Project root (`/`) contains dependencies for linting and commit conventions.
- `/src` contains dependencies for the actual application, and building the application for distribution.
- Other directories such as `/storybook` or `/vitest`, may contain dependencies for running that particular tooling.

This structure allows us to more easily upgrade non-critical parts of the application separately, and make easier
choices about what dependencies we need to spend time on upgrading. It also allows us to more logically separate dependencies
into multiple lists per tool, rather than just deps and dev deps.

## Linting and Testing

Linting and Testing can be initiated from root of the project repository.

There are scripts in `package.json` for running these, and can be configured to run just against the `/src` directory,
or across other packages as well, as desired.

We can optionally add scripts to each package individually to specify how we want to lint within that package, and then
run all of them using the `-r` flag, e.g. `pnpm run -r lint`. This will run the `lint` script in all packages that have
one configured.
